The way the first fourteen argues,
As obedient children,
Don't be conformed.
Seems to say,
That being a child is a motive for not being.
Conformed.
He doesn't say,
Get your passions fixed so that you can become a child.
Right? Right.
That's not Christianity. he says,
As obedient children, you've been born
Verse three,
He caused you to be born again. you're born into a family.
"'And now you have a father, and you are a child.'"
And as a new
Child in a new family with a new father
Let that have an effect on your behavior.
We love our Father.
We don't want to dishonor our father.
We are obedient children. we are chips off the old block.
That is what new birth says, isn't it?
When you get a new birth by the spirit, you get a new Dna, a spiritual Dna, and and all kinds of new passions are written into that Dna.
I want to jump right now to chapter 2, verse 2, where it says, I'm going to jump right now to chapter 2, verse
Grow up into salvation,
Eagerly desire the sincere spiritual milk that you may grow into salvation because i don't want to create the impression that the moment you're born again you have all these new
These new passions full-blown immediately. You don't. And first feeder knows you don't.
Chapter two, verse two is growth, and chapter two, verse three is be built into a house. there's this process that comes into being. Let's see if we can.
See if we can get there.
Okay.
I see we summarized this is this little slide right here
Here's a summary.
of what we've seen so far.
We have.
God.
Who is at the front of everything, right?
Ultimate reality, God. We're not ultimate. He's ultimate. Always been there.
We learn.
Verse 2.
Three.
This God,
He's a God of greatness.
Have mercy.
Where would we be?
Since we've
not lived up to our own standards let alone his
This God of great mercy,
Sins,
A bleeding
And rising Christ into the world.
He dies for sinners.
He's raised from the dead.
Then
It comes to each of us.
And he awakens us,
From our deadness spiritually,
And we experienced new birth.
In this new birth, in the new family,
We have...
New knowledge, not the old ignorance, but new knowledge.
Of a great inheritance,
And the father's getting us there.
So the inheritance is great, and he keeps us for it.
We know that now because we've been born again.
And out of that new knowledge
The new knowledge
Calm new passions.
Of faith.
Hope.
Joy,
And out of that
Comes new conduct.
Evening holiness.
That's the pattern we've seen so far.
God,
mercy.
Work of Christ
New birth,
New knowledge, new passions,
New conduct.
He hasn't said a word yet about the effect this has on Vancouver.
Or Cappadocia, Pontus, Galatia.,
He will.
He hasn't said a word yet about doing it for the glory of God.
Seventeen.
Chapter 1, verse 17.
And if you call on him as.
Father,
Who judges impartially, according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves. So he's still at the conduct level here.
Conduct yourselves throughout the time of your exile,
Still got that in mind.
With fear.
Does the basic count command in verse 17?
Is
Live a life of fear.
And we just like...
jars us.
Because...
You know, you've probably heard that the most
Frequent command in the Bible is fear not.
And here we're being told to live our whole lives in fear.
Verse 18.
Knowing, so this is, this is a Ah, foundation or a reason for living your life in fear.
Knowing
That you were ransomed,
From the futile ways, that's that's the old ways in ignorance,
The feudal ways so here's feudal ways and here's new conduct
So,
Conduct yourselves with fear. this is new.
And you were bought, you were ransomed,
From the feudal ways,
Inherited from your forefathers
I would just love to linger here. If I were preaching a sermon here instead of trying to move us forward,
I would so want to apply to those of you who feel
Fatalistic,
About
The effects of your
Parrots,
Treatment of you
On the possibilities of your life. you feel fatalistic about that.
And probably some people have told you that you're you're just stuck. And.
And that abuse or that neglect,
Ah, it has made you this way, and and that's just.
Sad, and and you will just have to.
Accept that.
Yeah, there are scars that don't go. That's true, but I just want to
You'd linger over verses.
Versa
Seventeen and eighteen here.
Because why would he say inherited from your forefathers?
Feudal ways.
Knowing that.
You were ransomed.
With what?
In order to be set free from futile ways that
Came down to you through your parents, through some kind of generational.
Sin
And you are feeling fatalistic about your possibilities as a man or a woman. And I want to say to you, don't minimize the value of the blood of Jesus, for you.
But look,
Knowing
That you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things,
Like this
The ransom that was paid for you,
It's no.
Like gold and silver.
It's not like a billion dollars, a mere billion dollars.
Such a silver gold, but,
With the precious.
blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. So he's contrasting
A, a ransom payment that is small,
And a ransom payment, that is,,
Infinite.
The blood of the Son of God.
And if you
Say,
Well, that ransom really can't free me from...
The feudal ways inherited from my parents, then you are.
Saying something untrue.
About the blood.
of Jesus. This is worth a lot of your prayer.
A lot of your thought, a lot of your discussion, if you're in counseling, you should take a steer counselor.
Just take these verses to your counselor and say,
How do you think that works?
Councillors ought to have to come to terms with things like that.
Because, I mean, I love counseling. My wife and I have gone to school.
We've been married 46 years. I think we spent
Four of them in counseling.
Just to be honest about how hard life is sometimes in ministry.
So don't hear me debunking Christian counseling.
I think God, God anoints people with wisdom.
Which is what counseling is.
And some of them are terrible.
Paul Tripp.
He's not a terrible counselor.
be here for your wedding.
Marriage.
Seminar
And what I mean by terrible is,
There's,
There's very little profound reflection on a verse like this.
Okay, I said I wasn't going to linger too long.
over that.
um, um,
Here's the. Here's the strange thing.
This this knowing right here
Is like because you know, so conduct yourselves with fear,
Throughout,
You're exile.
Because you know you've been ransomed with an infinite price. Does that make any sense at all?
Conduct yourself with fear because you know an infinite price has been paid to rescue you.
That wouldn't produce fear.
That produces hope.
So this is the kind of thing that causes me to just think and think and think and pray and pray because i want to get this i want to get this you're telling me to live my whole life
Whole life.
In fear conduct conduct yourself in fear
Because you know, you know,
That you were ransomed,
From all the deadly ways of your forefathers, not with mere billion dollars' worth of gold, but with the precious blood of Jesus. therefore, live your life in fear.
Okay, here's my attempt.
Add a solution to that.
i mean you you could i suppose just immediately all fear doesn't mean fear means reverence.
okay.
Um.
Do a word study on fear in First Peter.
I don't think you'll go there too quick.
Um.
It's used for really being afraid sometimes.
And so the question is here.
Here's a picture, a dull picture for you.
You have
Been.
I kidnapped.
So you're eighteen years old, you're a young woman.
and and they send your dad
A ransom note that says they want a million dollars,
And, ah,
You leave it here, she'll pick it up.
Thank you.
And, and, and, and,
I mean, we'll pick it up and and let her go, meet you on this field.
And and so you love her, and?
And though it's risky and the police may advise you against it, you're going to take whatever risks necessary to to get your daughter.
And so you, you somehow get the million dollars together, mortgage everything, or whatever,, And and then you take it, and you put it out there, and you walk to the appointed place.
And she walks out.
Picks it up,
Walks back and says, sucker!
I think what first Peter is saying
Fear that that ever happens to you.
Don't ever become that young woman.
Don't ever...
Take the blood of Jesus.
And,
Pretend that it doesn't.
Rescue you from.
Evil conduct.
And just go ahead and side up with the devil and.
Bank on the blood of Jesus to get you out of hell in the end while you live like the devil here.
Don't
Treat the blood,
That way, the price.
Don't treat your dad that way.
Don't treat Jesus that way. Here's what I mean. I think fear...
Frequently in the New Testament.
Thank God, and whether I have
Any other verses to illustrate this.
Um,
I've got it written here.
I think fear in the New Testament frequently
is a
Um,
Is a motive,
To keep you from acting
in a way that would bring dishonor upon the Lord and to drive you to Christ where there is hope.
Hope.
Here are a few verses that point in that direction.
Romans 11:20
That is true.
The.
They were broken off, the Jewish branches were broken off because of unbelief.
But you stand fast through faith.
So do not become proud, but fear.
That means...
Fear on belief.
Can you handle that paradox?
I don't want to mess up your life here. I don't want you to walk out of here thinking you're supposed to be walking in fear.
What?
He may not love me.
I want I want. I want you to fear is your unbelief.
You're walking out and saying sucker
Fear that you might wake up tomorrow morning and say, sucker to God,
Fear that!
And what? what does that fear do to you?
that fear drives you into faith drives you into hope drives you into girding up the loins of your minds and being sober and setting your hope fully on the things
on the things that are to come so that you don't drift away into cherishing the world and say, "Sucker, I love the world."
That's how I think.
This fear in verse,
Seventeen.
Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of exile, I mean, I think means conduct yourselves with the kind of.
Fear and trembling,
That Paul talks about a fear-encrambling
that recognizes how frail you are and how desperately you need grace.
And then fly to grace
Fall on grace.
And put away.
It's a rhythm.
Numerous other.
Passages, Luke twelve.
Don't fear the one.
Who can only kill the body, fear him, who can cast both soul and body into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him.
That kind of fear should drive us to the cross, drive us to faith.